hey guys J here from E to language in
this lesson we're going to look at TOEFL
reading skill number two which is guest
vocabulary from context this one's
pretty straightforward but nevertheless
let's have a close look at it so the
objective of this lesson is to
understand the question type and learn
how to answer it accurately okay what
I'm going to do in this lesson is
describe the task to you I'm going to
show you a method a simple method for
how to do this well and then I'll give
you a chance to do some practice at the
end so do stay tuned first of all let me
just describe this task to you so this
is what the question type guess
vocabulary from context will look like
on test day on the left hand side you
can see the question prompt and the
answer options on the right hand side
you can see the passage of text what you
can see here is and this sort of gives
this question away as you can see the
word in bold and you can see the same
word in bold there what do you have to
do well you have to decide whether a
decrease or weaken or provide or worsen
will best fit this space or best replace
this word to say the same thing okay now
of course you have to guess well maybe
you will know what that word actually
means like exacerbate for example but
most the time you won't because it's
going to be a very very tricky very
uncommon word so what you have to really
do is read for context to replace that
word with another word that you do know
so let's have a look at the method now
for how to do this so step one you want
to compare the meaning of the word in
the question to the answer option
because you know what you may just know
what that word is or synonym for it so
let's do that first
so let's look at this word exacerbate
okay so we could exacerbate now does
that mean the same as decrease or weaken
or provide or worsen hmm so I mean if
you know that that's good but you still
might need to read the passage itself
because there may be two that will be
similar like weaken and worsen for
example and it's only the context of
this from which you will be able to
select the correct answer so that's step
one step two locate the word in the
passage and read that sentence okay fine
so let's let's locate the word in the
passage where we can see it in bold here
it's very clear let's read this sentence
here the proposed tax rise will in only
exacerbate financial problems for low
income earners
so the proposed tax rise will only
exacerbate financial problems for low
income earners okay now we've got the
context of this word we could go back
and have a look now let's go to step
three try each answer option and
eliminate incorrect options okay so
let's let's read this sentence again but
let's try it with the word decrease so
the proposed tax rise will only decrease
financial problems for low income
earners
well a tax rise decreasing a tax rise
will only exacerbate sorry decrease
financial problems know that that just
doesn't make sense that doesn't make
sense
let's try weaken the proposed tax rise
will only weaken financial problems for
low income earners again doesn't really
make much sense doesn't it let's try
this third one here the proposed tax
rise will only provide financial
problems no that doesn't make sense
either
okay we're left with this one here
hopefully this makes sense the proposed
tax rise will only worsen financial
problems for low income earners
interesting so that leads us to step
four where we choose the correct
answer option which is D worsen so in
other words in this context of that
passage the word exacerbate and worsen a
synonymous they're synonyms that can
replace each other to keep the same
meaning that's what this task is all
about ok cool now that you've got that
let me give you a tip so read the
sentence for tone let's read the
sentence again it says the proposed tax
rise will only exacerbate financial
problems for low-income earners so
what's the tone of this sentence is it a
positive tone or is it a negative tone
well it's certainly negative isn't it
and so how can we tell it's negative
well we're talking about tax so that's
always usually quite a negative thing
but it tax rise and and this little
adverb here gives it away only
exacerbate financial problems well
there's the negative word as well so
decrease well that's potentially
negative so it could be that one could
be that one could be that one and it's
definitely not going to be provide okay
so that's just a little tip read for
tone now it's time for you to do some
practice so I want you to pause the
video give yourself a minute try and
find the synonym the correct synonym to
fit the context for the word mislead
how did you go if you haven't done it
yet please go back and press pause
because the only way to get good at
TOEFL reading is to do TOEFL reading
okay right let's have a look at the
answer then so the answer is full this
is the word which can best replace
mislead to keep the same meaning let's
have a look at it in more detail okay so
first of all mislead protect disagree
engage full hmm okay let's read the
sentence science can often mislead the
uninformed as untested theories are
accepted as fact science can often
protect the uninformed no science can
often disagree disagree the uninformed
well there's no preposition because it
should say disagree with the uninformed
but there's no width here so it can't be
this one science can often engage the
uninformed well the turns wrong because
this is a positive tone so it's not that
full science can often fool the
uninformed as untested theories are
accepted as fact this one makes sense
cool okay here's another little tip for
you let's look at the sentence again
this is an important tip science will
often mislead the uninformed as untested
theories are accepted as fact read for
prefixes what's the prefix of this word
here miss we've got the base word here
lead lead to lead but to mislead means
the opposite okay so read for the
missing and also the prepositions which
I showed you so lead would be the
opposite of full and mislead will be the
same as full in terms of meaning cool
right guys for TOEFL success check out
eetu language comm I hope that lesson
was helpful do check out the website
heaps of practice material tutorials
live classes whatever you need for
success on your TOEFL we are the people
to go to where the website for you see
you soon